# About

This module provision a custom server on libvirt.

It provides a base:
- Built-in cloudinit volume and server instantiation
- Base cloud init orchestration to create an admin user and set the hostname based on the libvirt vm name.
- Cloudinit networking orchestration

From there, it takes plain cloud-init parts as an argument for customizability that it adds to the cloudinit volume.

# Usage

## Input Variables

- **name**: Name to give to the vm. Will be the hostname by default as well.
- **hostname**: Used to give the vm an internal hostname that is different from the vm's name. It takes the following fields:
  - **hostname**: Hostname to give to the vm
  - **is_fqdn**: Boolean indicating whether the hostname is a fully qualified domain name or not.
- **vcpus**: Number of vcpus to assign to the vm. Defaults to 2.
- **memory**: Amount of memory in MiB to assign to the vm. Defaults to 8192.
- **volume_ids**: Id of the volumes to attach to the vm. The first volume should be an os volume. Any additional volumes should be formatted by additional cloud-init logic passed as an argument if they are not already formatted.
- **libvirt_networks**: Parameters to connect to libvirt networks. It is an array of objects, each having the following keys:
  - **network_id**: Id (ie, uuid) of the libvirt network to connect to (in which case **network_name** should be an empty string).
  - **network_name**: Name of the libvirt network to connect to (in which case **network_id** should be an empty string).
  - **ip**: Ip of interface connecting to the libvirt network.
  - **mac**: Mac address of interface connecting to the libvirt network.
  - **prefix_length**:  Length of the network prefix for the network the interface will be connected to. For a **192.168.1.0/24** for example, this would be **24**.
  - **gateway**: Ip of the network's gateway. Usually the gateway the first assignable address of a libvirt's network.
  - **dns_servers**: Dns servers to use. Usually the dns server is first assignable address of a libvirt's network.
  - **search_domains**: List of search domains for DNS resolution. Defaults to **[]**.
  - **dhcp_identifier**: DHCP identifier to use. Defaults to **duid**.
  - **dhcp4_overrides**: Optional DHCP4 override settings. It takes the following fields:
    - **use_dns**: Whether to use DNS settings from DHCP.
    - **use_mtu**: Whether to use MTU settings from DHCP.
    - **use_domains**: Whether to use domain settings from DHCP.
  - **wait_for_lease**: When creating the domain resource, wait until the network interface gets a DHCP lease from libvirt, so that the computed IP addresses will be available when the domain is up and the plan applied. Defaults to **false**.
- **macvtap_interfaces**: List of macvtap interfaces to connect the vm to. Each entry in the list is a map with the following keys:
  - **interface**: Host network interface that you plan to connect your macvtap interface with.
  - **prefix_length**: Length of the network prefix for the network the interface will be connected to. For a **192.168.1.0/24** for example, this would be **24**.
  - **ip**: Ip associated with the macvtap interface. 
  - **mac**: Mac address associated with the macvtap interface
  - **gateway**: Ip of the network's gateway for the network the interface will be connected to.
  - **dns_servers**: Dns servers for the network the interface will be connected to. If there aren't dns servers setup for the network your vm will connect to, the ip of external dns servers accessible from the network will work as well.
  - **search_domains**: List of search domains for DNS resolution. Defaults to **[]**.
  - **dhcp_identifier**: DHCP identifier to use. Defaults to **duid**.
  - **dhcp4_overrides**: Optional DHCP4 override settings. It takes the following fields:
    - **use_dns**: Whether to use DNS settings from DHCP.
    - **use_mtu**: Whether to use MTU settings from DHCP.
    - **use_domains**: Whether to use domain settings from DHCP.
  - **wait_for_lease**: When creating the domain resource, wait until the network interface gets a DHCP lease from libvirt, so that the computed IP addresses will be available when the domain is up and the plan applied. Defaults to **false**.
- **gpus**: List of host gpu devices to attach to the vm.
  - **domain**: Domain of the gpu device.
  - **bus**: Bus of the gpu device.
  - **slot**: Slot of the gpu device.
  - **function**: Function of the gpu device.
- **gpus_pci**: List of host gpu pci devices to attach to the vm.
- **cloud_init_volume_pool**: Name of the volume pool that will contain the cloud-init volume of the vm.
- **cloud_init_volume_name**: Name of the cloud-init volume that will be generated by the module for your vm. If left empty, it will default to **<name>-cloud-init.iso**.
- **ssh_admin_user**: Username of the default sudo user in the image. Defaults to **ubuntu**.
- **admin_user_password**: Optional password for the default sudo user of the image. Note that this will not enable ssh password connections, but it will allow you to log into the vm from the host using the **virsh console** command.
- **ssh_admin_public_key**: Public part of the ssh key the admin will be able to login as
- **cloud_init_configurations**: List of additional parts of cloud-init configuration. Each entry in the list should have a **filename** field that should be unique and meaningful as to the purpose of the cloud-init part and they should have a **content** field that should contain the content of the cloud-init part.
- **running**: Whether the vm should be running or stopped. Defaults to **true**.
- **autostart**: Whether the vm should start on host boot up. Defaults to **true**.
- **qemu_agent**: Whether to install and enable the use of qemu_agent in the vm. Defaults to **true**.
- **domain_graphics_type**: The domain graphics type to use. It can be either **vnc** or **spice**. Defaults to **vnc**.
- **network_perf_tuning**: Parameters injected into the libvirt domain XSLT that tunes the network interface. Only interface type=network is supported. It is an array of objects, each having the following keys:
  - **network_type**: Type of network interface. Must be **network**. Defaults to **network**.
  - **network_name**: Name of the libvirt network to apply tuning to.
  - **vhost_queues**: Number of vhost queues. Must be between 1 and min(vcpu_count, 8), or omitted.
- **machine**: The machine type. You normally won't need to set this unless you are running on a platform that defaults to the wrong machine type for your template. Can only be empty or **q35**. Defaults to empty.
- **timeouts**: Terraform domain operation timeouts. It is an object with the following fields:
  - **create**: Timeout defining how long terraform should wait for domain creation operation to complete before failing. default is 5 mn
- **shared_filesystems**: List of host directories to share with the guest via virtiofs. Requires virtiofsd >= 1.11 on the host. Defaults to **[]**. Each entry has the following fields:
  - **source_dir**: Absolute path on the host to share.
  - **target_dir**: Mount tag used inside the guest to mount the share (e.g. `mount -t virtiofs <target_dir> /mnt/myshare`).
  - **queue**: virtiofs queue depth. Defaults to **1024**.
- **interface_naming**: Optional interface naming template strategy used to construct the network config. Defaults to **null** (no explicit naming). When set, it is an object with the following fields:
  - **template**: Naming template string for network interfaces. Must contain the keyword **$${index}**, which will be replaced with the interface's index (e.g. `eth{index}` or `ens{index}`).
  - **start_index**: The starting index value used when expanding the template (e.g. `0` to start at `eth0`).

## Example of a custom cloud-init part

Say that we wanted to add cephadm to the custom server.

An entry for this in the **cloud_init_configurations** list could have a **filename** with a value of **cephadm.cfg** and a **content** with a value of:

```
#cloud-config
merge_how:
 - name: list
   settings: [append, no_replace]
 - name: dict
   settings: [no_replace, recurse_list]

runcmd:
  - wget https://download.ceph.com/rpm-18.2.0/el9/noarch/cephadm
  - chmod +x cephadm
  - ./cephadm add-repo --release reef
  - ./cephadm install
  - rm cephadm
  - cephadm install ceph-common
```
